After the lukewarm satire of “Sons a Witches,” the creators of South Park seem to have taken a little break, and returned very well-rested indeed; “Doubling Down,” is the best episode of the season, and perhaps the best the show has been in years.
The episode focuses on my favorite subplot of the season, Heidi and Cartman’s relationship. 
This time, it’s his mother’s fault for feeding him junk food, which messes with his blood sugar, which of course is the only reason why he is a horrible person.
Heidi reluctantly accepts the explanation on the condition Cartman go vegan, a compromise which Cartman enthusiastically accepts. That is, until he’s in the presence of his friends; now, Heidi is a controlling psychopath again. But Kyle sees right through Cartman’s vile behavior, and is deeply concerned.
So much so, that he privately asks Heidi if she’s alright - she snaps back with an overly defensive response, highlighting the fact that everyone in her social circle questions her relationship daily, the constant criticism only sharpening her defense of Cartman. It’s surprisingly profound for an animated series peppered with fart jokes - anyone who’s ever been in a toxic relationship can attest to the fact that when everyone tells you to end it, you double down. Whatever fragment of decency lies in the abuser is magnified under the assault, because that’s the reason the relationship blossomed in the first place, and why it continues.
Cartman finds a typically deceitful solution to his vegan problem - he lies. Hilariously, the two share a bucket of KFC, Heidi naively under the impression that she is eating imitation meat. Cartman gets to pig out as usual and Heidi gets a stomach-ache - it’s another win in Cartman’s eyes.
In fact, Cartman even decides that Heidi’s new diet is causing her to put on weight, and delights in mocking her in front of his friends. It’s psychological projection at its finest, and as amusing as it is, it’s hard not to feel sympathy for poor Heidi.
Kyle feels so much sympathy that he realizes that he may actually be attracted to Heidi (Kyle does seem like the kind of guy who enjoys “saving” girls). From his emotional support, a mutual romance begins to bloom.
Then, surprisingly, we cut to the White House. After Garrison-Trump’s last appearance, I assumed the character was more or less out of the picture. But here, Matt and Trey cleverly point out the parallel between Trump’s weird relationship with his cabinet and “battered wife syndrome.” Indeed, the satire is so sharp it’s almost not funny. Paul Ryan, Mike Pence and a very accurate caricature of turtle-man Mitch McConnell quietly plead with Trump to be a little more professional, and at least start pronouncing “Niger” correctly. (Did Trump actually do this? I can’t keep up anymore).
Garrison-Trump’s solution is to violently rape all three, and Paul Ryan’s subsequent interview with the press, as he nurses a black eye and defends Trump’s actions, is painfully accurate. The parallel between Heidi and Cartman’s poisonous, yet stubborn relationship is extended to Trump’s supporters, who watch Trump’s latest gaffe on tv, and look away, unwilling to criticize him for fear of the left’s rabid gloating.
This is unfortunately, exactly what’s happening. We’re in a bizarre situation where the anti-Trump crowd is obsessively critical, ready to erupt in outrage at the slightest provocation, real or imagined, causing Trump’s supporters to aggressively defend his every action, even those they might not actually agree with.
When Heidi finally breaks things off with Cartman and embraces Kyle’s warm love, her friends throw her a celebratory dinner, where they proceed to mock her for daring to date This episode, and the brilliant “Put it Down,” have shown that Matt and Trey have learned how to use their “Trump card.” Garrison-Trump is a lethal weapon, to be used sparingly, for when they actually have something worth saying. Compared to the ocean of white noise out there, it’s admirably restrained, and South Park’s satire is all the sharper for it.
